{
  "call_date": "2024-12-13",
  "call_title": "Ergo PoW Blockchain - Weekly Update & AMA - December 12th 2024",
  "decisions": [],
  "commitments": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "timestamp": "01:28",
      "commitment": "Publish reworked EAP proposal based on forum text this month",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "this month if no surprises",
      "topic": "technical",
      "quote": "hopefully this month if no surprises, but they always happen. So yeah, hope to publish EAP reworked EAP proposal based on the forum text"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "timestamp": "03:04",
      "commitment": "Make issues with bounty for sub-blocks development",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "today",
      "topic": "technical",
      "quote": "we'll check developers group today, so if there are guys willing to contribute, I will make issues with bounty and so on"
    },
    {
      "id": 3,
      "timestamp": "05:49",
      "commitment": "Give a talk at local developer event",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "Saturday",
      "topic": "community",
      "quote": "on Saturday I'm giving a talk at some local events"
    },
    {
      "id": 4,
      "timestamp": "07:37",
      "commitment": "Record video talk about property rights in programmable money for Italy event",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "December 21st",
      "topic": "community",
      "quote": "it will take place in Italy on December 21st and I'm recording video"
    },
    {
      "id": 5,
      "timestamp": "69:26",
      "commitment": "Take rest for half a day on January 7th",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "January 7th",
      "topic": "personal",
      "quote": "taking rest for half a day on 7th"
    }
  ],
  "open_questions": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "timestamp": "02:21",
      "question": "Need for more developers, particularly UI maintainer for Dexy",
      "context": "Spectrum DEX pull request merged but need UI maintenance",
      "topic": "dexy",
      "raised_by": "kushti"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "timestamp": "24:34",
      "question": "When to make spaces and zoom calls",
      "context": "Need to decide scheduling",
      "topic": "governance",
      "raised_by": "kushti"
    }
  ],
  "reversals_or_updates": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "timestamp": "04:22",
      "previous": "Peer was expected to be approved by Ledger for integration",
      "update": "Peer wasn't approved by Ledger despite being former Kudelsky security employee",
      "reason": "Ledger team didn't get Kudelsky quality from former employees",
      "speaker": "kushti",
      "topic": "ledger-integration"
    }
  ],
  "key_facts": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "timestamp": "00:49",
      "fact": "Still finalizing version 6.0 with some issues discovered that need fixing",
      "speaker": "kushti",
      "topic": "technical"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "timestamp": "03:21",
      "fact": "Sigma Rust now supports deterministic signatures needed for Keystone integration",
      "speaker": "kushti",
      "topic": "technical"
    },
    {
      "id": 3,
      "timestamp": "05:22",
      "fact": "Kudelsky did audits for Sigmanauts in 2019 for inbuilt wallets, cryptography, and proof of work aspects",
      "speaker": "kushti",
      "topic": "technical"
    },
    {
      "id": 4,
      "timestamp": "44:16",
      "fact": "Hackathon results: Satergo came first place, Bruno got second, The Shark and Sigmanauts came third",
      "speaker": "Armeanio",
      "topic": "hackathon"
    },
    {
      "id": 5,
      "timestamp": "17:01",
      "fact": "Sigmanauts mining pool hitting big boxes in terms of storage rent from four years in the past",
      "speaker": "Armeanio",
      "topic": "mining"
    },
    {
      "id": 6,
      "timestamp": "19:24",
      "fact": "PGR submitted pull request for silver Oracle",
      "speaker": "Armeanio",
      "topic": "dexy"
    }
  ]
}