{
  "call_date": "2025-03-26",
  "call_title": "Ergo PoW Blockchain - Dev Update - March 25th",
  "decisions": [],
  "commitments": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "timestamp": "47:41",
      "commitment": "Add internationalization support to Nautilus wallet",
      "owner": "NBR/Nautilus team",
      "timeline": "unspecified",
      "topic": "wallet-development",
      "quote": "Next up, add internationalization support"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "timestamp": "48:42",
      "commitment": "Planning the peer-to-peer layer for sub-blocks propagation",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "unspecified",
      "topic": "sub-blocks",
      "quote": "planning the peer-to-peer layer for sub-blocks propagation"
    },
    {
      "id": 3,
      "timestamp": "51:15",
      "commitment": "ChainCash paper will appear on preprint server shortly",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "shortly",
      "topic": "chain-cash",
      "quote": "Will appear on preprint server shortly"
    },
    {
      "id": 4,
      "timestamp": "53:39",
      "commitment": "Implement support for other tokens besides ERG in Beene project",
      "owner": "Joseph Mice",
      "timeline": "after first version is complete",
      "topic": "token-support",
      "quote": "Once we have everything tied up, we'll proceed to implement support for other tokens besides the ERG"
    }
  ],
  "open_questions": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "timestamp": "01:31",
      "question": "When will people using blockchain for its intended purpose outnumber those using it to get rich quick or steal money?",
      "context": "Discussion about legitimate blockchain adoption vs speculation",
      "topic": "blockchain-adoption",
      "raised_by": "qx()"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "timestamp": "03:30",
      "question": "How do we get to privacy?",
      "context": "Discussion about financial surveillance and stable coin regulation",
      "topic": "privacy",
      "raised_by": "Armeanio"
    }
  ],
  "reversals_or_updates": [],
  "key_facts": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "timestamp": "23:53",
      "fact": "kushti hasn't been paid by anybody since about 2021",
      "speaker": "Armeanio",
      "topic": "funding"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "timestamp": "47:41",
      "fact": "Nautilus version 1.1.0 was released with polished SigmaUSD dApp implementation, fixed ledger connection bug, fixed Firefox compatibility issues",
      "speaker": "qx()",
      "topic": "wallet-development"
    },
    {
      "id": 3,
      "timestamp": "48:42",
      "fact": "Ergo 6.0.0 RC3 has been released",
      "speaker": "Armeanio",
      "topic": "node-development"
    },
    {
      "id": 4,
      "timestamp": "48:42",
      "fact": "Scripto 3.1.0 with Scala 3 support released",
      "speaker": "Armeanio",
      "topic": "development-tools"
    },
    {
      "id": 5,
      "timestamp": "48:42",
      "fact": "Sub-blocks forks resolution is done and covered with tests",
      "speaker": "Armeanio",
      "topic": "sub-blocks"
    },
    {
      "id": 6,
      "timestamp": "51:55",
      "fact": "Python binding for Sigma Rust is done and pushed to PyPI",
      "speaker": "qx()",
      "topic": "development-tools"
    },
    {
      "id": 7,
      "timestamp": "59:06",
      "fact": "Joe has a building in Colorado Springs available for US Ergo meetup",
      "speaker": "Armeanio",
      "topic": "community"
    }
  ]
}