{
  "call_date": "2025-06-13",
  "call_title": "Ergo PoW Blockchain - Weekly Update & AMA - June 12th",
  "decisions": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "timestamp": "29:32",
      "decision": "Activation dates for version 6.0 set to June 25th to July 1st",
      "speaker": "kushti",
      "context": "Need to finalize activation timeline for node version 6.0",
      "topic": "technical",
      "significance": "major",
      "quote": "Currently I'm thinking about something like June 25th to July 1st"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "timestamp": "22:04",
      "decision": "Avoided stable coins in Rosen Bridge due to freeze/seizure risks",
      "speaker": "Armeanio",
      "context": "Security considerations for bridge assets",
      "topic": "rosen-bridge",
      "significance": "major",
      "quote": "one thing that we've done that is not popular so far is we have avoided stable coins"
    }
  ],
  "commitments": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "timestamp": "29:03",
      "commitment": "Release 5.0.27 and 5.1 around Monday",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "Monday",
      "topic": "technical",
      "quote": "So hopefully it can be done around Monday"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "timestamp": "29:29",
      "commitment": "Release version 6.0 next week",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "next week",
      "topic": "technical",
      "quote": "6.0 hopefully will be released next week, maybe closer to the end of the week if no more issues will be found"
    },
    {
      "id": 3,
      "timestamp": "30:47",
      "commitment": "Deploy sub-blocks supporting nodes into public testnet in July",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "July",
      "topic": "technical",
      "quote": "in July we can start to deploy sub-blocks supporting nodes into the public testnet as well"
    },
    {
      "id": 4,
      "timestamp": "31:31",
      "commitment": "Another DevNet update in the next few days",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "next few days",
      "topic": "technical",
      "quote": "hopefully in the next few days, there will be another DevNet update"
    },
    {
      "id": 5,
      "timestamp": "33:16",
      "commitment": "Publish thoughts on scaling and organizing sigma chains development in coming days",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "coming days",
      "topic": "technical",
      "quote": "We'll publish some thoughts on that. Hopefully in coming days"
    },
    {
      "id": 6,
      "timestamp": "33:22",
      "commitment": "Create two videos for anniversary - one about sub-blocks and one about crypto endgame",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "unspecified",
      "topic": "marketing",
      "quote": "probably there will be two videos, one about sub-blocks and so on. And another one is about the end game"
    },
    {
      "id": 7,
      "timestamp": "23:54",
      "commitment": "Call with Dan tomorrow about Dexy development",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "tomorrow",
      "topic": "tokenomics",
      "quote": "So tomorrow we'll have a call with Dan"
    }
  ],
  "open_questions": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "timestamp": "05:26",
      "question": "How to create right incentive alignment for external support and maintenance of Rosen chains",
      "context": "Scaling Rosen to new chains requires ongoing maintenance support",
      "topic": "rosen-bridge",
      "raised_by": "Armeanio"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "timestamp": "30:28",
      "question": "Need to set activation dates for version 6.0",
      "context": "Version 6.0 release timeline needs finalization",
      "topic": "technical",
      "raised_by": "kushti"
    },
    {
      "id": 3,
      "timestamp": "31:56",
      "question": "Still not sure about versioning for sub-blocks releases",
      "context": "Version numbering scheme for upcoming releases unclear",
      "topic": "technical",
      "raised_by": "kushti"
    },
    {
      "id": 4,
      "timestamp": "32:03",
      "question": "Need to formalize security for sub-blocks",
      "context": "Security model needs documentation and discussion",
      "topic": "technical",
      "raised_by": "kushti"
    },
    {
      "id": 5,
      "timestamp": "33:59",
      "question": "Need to find tech for real world applications like BRICK",
      "context": "Looking for practical applications of Ergo technology",
      "topic": "technical",
      "raised_by": "kushti"
    }
  ],
  "reversals_or_updates": [],
  "key_facts": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "timestamp": "34:48",
      "fact": "15,000 ERGs collected for US Fiat Unwrap raffle, 67.99 ERG to go",
      "speaker": "qx()",
      "topic": "governance"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "timestamp": "35:13",
      "fact": "1400 tickets, 94 backers for the raffle",
      "speaker": "qx()",
      "topic": "governance"
    },
    {
      "id": 3,
      "timestamp": "29:58",
      "fact": "Dusick found consensus vector that could split 5.0 and 6.0 nodes but is hardly exploitable",
      "speaker": "kushti",
      "topic": "technical"
    },
    {
      "id": 4,
      "timestamp": "58:16",
      "fact": "Anniversary date is July 1st",
      "speaker": "kushti",
      "topic": "governance"
    },
    {
      "id": 5,
      "timestamp": "03:27",
      "fact": "Working on Runes and Doge integration for Rosen Bridge",
      "speaker": "Armeanio",
      "topic": "rosen-bridge"
    },
    {
      "id": 6,
      "timestamp": "12:44",
      "fact": "Had to design new module for multi-resource backend specifically for Doge",
      "speaker": "Armeanio",
      "topic": "rosen-bridge"
    }
  ]
}