{
  "call_date": "2025-07-01",
  "call_title": "Looking to the Future | Armeanio and Kushti | Ergoversary 2025",
  "decisions": [],
  "commitments": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "timestamp": "11:34",
      "commitment": "Final sync for 6.0 to propose it to miners",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "At the moment of releasing this video",
      "topic": "technical",
      "quote": "So, just doing final sync for 6.0 to propose it to miners."
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "timestamp": "47:31",
      "commitment": "Updated DevNet will be available",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "By the moment of releasing this video",
      "topic": "technical",
      "quote": "So I think to the moment of releasing this video, there will be updated DevNet."
    },
    {
      "id": 3,
      "timestamp": "47:45",
      "commitment": "Inject sub-block supporting nodes into public testnet",
      "owner": "kushti",
      "timeline": "Somewhat July",
      "topic": "technical",
      "quote": "And yeah, well, in somewhat July, we can think about injecting sub-block supporting nodes into the public testnet."
    }
  ],
  "open_questions": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "timestamp": "16:34",
      "question": "What would be next upgrades for the core protocol after 6.0 and sub-blocks",
      "context": "Dependent on sidechains implementations and experiments",
      "topic": "technical",
      "raised_by": "kushti"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "timestamp": "09:52",
      "question": "How the Better Money initiative will be structured and funded",
      "context": "Still shaping how it will be done",
      "topic": "better-money",
      "raised_by": "kushti"
    }
  ],
  "reversals_or_updates": [],
  "key_facts": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "timestamp": "11:51",
      "fact": "Miners would update nodes already and set voting configuration in the setting files by the moment of releasing this video",
      "speaker": "kushti",
      "topic": "technical"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "timestamp": "47:07",
      "fact": "Sub-blocks have been discussed since 2023",
      "speaker": "kushti",
      "topic": "technical"
    },
    {
      "id": 3,
      "timestamp": "03:36",
      "fact": "There is ongoing effort on getting Ergo book done",
      "speaker": "kushti",
      "topic": "documentation"
    }
  ]
}